Compiling source files has some interesting variations.

The default behavior is that each worker has a file, and that each one produces an output file.

Then there are "SourceFiles" which are random source files.
There are "WorkerSourceFiles" that are generated from worker names
Then there are "GeneratedSourceFiles".

Authored = source + worker
compiled = authored + generated

All make objects.

We have several problems:

1. Sometimes generated files are to be compiled rather than included
2. Sometimes source files need to be compiled in the right order.
3. Sometimes there is no such thing as an object file, but only a library that source files get compiled into as a whole.

#1: we can add these to the list of source files sometimes.
#2: Perhaps the combination of names can be overridden
#3: Option: compile all sources together

Black Box Files:

Xilinx (at least) needs to find an empty (black box) definition to pull/find a module in a library.
For verilog this means an empty module definition (which thus simply becomes a declaration).
For VHDL this means a component declaration in a package.

There are a number of build modes where cores get built that need to be used
in higher levels of design (i.e. not the top):

1. Primitive core:
    We expect a foo_bb.v and/or a foo_pkg.vhd.
    These enable verilog or VHDL callers to instantiate the core, respectively.
    To enable both langauges to use the core (regardless of the language in which the core is written),
    you need both of these files, as source files.
    Note that when the core is built, a library with the same name as the core is
    also built, which simply contains these files.

2. Worker in a library (component library, devices library)
   Component libraries create a single "stub" library for all the workers in the library, so there is no
   need for individual black box libraries per worker.
   When the "stubs" library for a component library is built, it includes both the verilog and VHDL
   declarations for all workers in the library.

3. Standalone cores that aren't in a library:
   Platform workers, platform configurations, application assemblies.
   All these have automatically generated declaration files (vhdl and verilog) that can be 
   placed in the black box library.
    
